---
amazon_s3_presentation_url: None
amazon_s3_video_url: None
author: connect
categories:
- yvr18
comments: false
date: '2018-08-22 09:00:00+00:00'
layout: resource-post
session_id: YVR18-109
session_track: Other, Open Source Development, Tools
speakers:
- biography: '"Long-time Debian arm person, currently concentrating on the arm64 port
    (including ilp32), GPU driver packaging, and crosstoolchains."'
  company: Linaro
  job-title: Free Software Engineer
  name: . Wookey
  speaker-image: .Wookey.jpg
title: YVR18-109:Mali packaging for distros
---

Discussion on how best to support Mali in distros.

There is now mali-midgard support in Debian from packaged drivers, but it is quite an old release (the last one supporting X) and only works on a very small set of platforms. There are lots of difficulties supporting more GPUs, boards, and windowing platforms. Free drivers are still very immature, binary drivers are built in a highly-specific, not-at-all-generic fashion, X support has been dropped (despite being by far the most common environment for distro users), and there are significant issues with standardising Mali DTB information, as well as platform-specific bodgery, and drivers released for community use by companies other than ARM which are not redistributable. Meanwhile there are 2 different free driver projects making slow but significant progress.

Getting some relevant people in a room to discuss what the best way to proceed is, particularly on DTB upstreaming/standisation,  what to do about X, whether ARM's release procedures can be adjusted to be more generic, and the state of the free drivers, would be useful. I would welcome your input to direct future efforts.

Lots of people want to see this working, and we have made useful progress since the last session on this in Hungary. I think it's time to discuss it again.

The effort so far has been in Debian, but all of this applies equally to any distro-based support, and somewhat to Android too.

Mailing list: 
https://alioth-lists.debian.net/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/pkg-mali-devel
Wiki: https://wiki.debian.org/MaliGraphics